---
layout: post
title: "iBTC"
subtitle: ""
date: 2022-09-22
categories: 
authors: Dom
---

- Risk-free return? Risk would be software bugs with the time-locking. Financial risk is opportunity cost of BTC.
- If layBTC holders get almost risk-free interest, can this interest be reduced and used to pay parties that enable risk-free interest?

## Lending Protocol

- interBTC minted is used to bootstrap liquidity in a lending protocol
- Adding layBTC does:
  - Increase overall iBTC supply in the lending protocol
  - Increased iBTC supply in the lending protocol *reduces* borrow rates for iBTC borrowers
  - Increased iBTC supply in the lending protocol *reduces* supply rates for all iBTC lenders
  - Result: interBTC lenders should be opposed to adding layBTC as additional supply as it dimishe their returns
  - Result: iBTC borrowers have interest to add more iBTC overall as it reduces their borrow cost
- Protocol interactions:
  - As layBTC starts to expire, supply of iBTC is reduced
  - Borrow rates go up as a result with users being forced to repay their over-collateralized loans
  - Idea: time-based borrow rates. Might not need to be explicit in the protocol but it comes down to essentially capping the max amount of layBTC that can be permitted as iBTC supply based on when layBTC expires.
  - Idea: layBTC fees are split between interBTC suppliers and layBTC suppliers. However, still reduces interBTC fee providers relative to their share. BUT: if it allows overall volume/fees to be greater, then it would be a win for both interBTC and layBTC holders.
  - Idea: Payment to layBTC holders depends on their share of layBTC in the protocol and the time of their lock. Similar to vINTR, the more and longer layBTC is locked, the more rewards are being received.

## AMM

- interBTC minted is used as a liquidity token in a pair of any two tokens
- Can we even allow layBTC to be part of a pool? Only if we could ensure that traders only receive at most the interBTC minted ones, i.e., the layBTC positions must always be fully returning the amount of layBTC provided.
- Idea: as Interlay, we can provide both iBTC (via layBTC specifically) and INTR. Thus, the protocol might be able to balance itself.
- Case 1: Interlay can only deposit or withdraw iBTC via layBTC liquidity from a pool
  - Increases the liquidity of the pool on the iBTC side
  - iBTC would need to be exchanged at 50% of the value to the other token pair (sell iBTC for the other asset)
  - This reduces the iBTC price and would likely create an arbitrage opportunity
  - Other traders should execute on this arbitrage opportunity and buy iBTC at a discount against the other token
  - Interlay would receive an LP token that has a claim on 50% of the initially added iBTC and 50% of the other token (in reality, less because the exchange to the other token will have slippage and fees; more like 49% and 49% of the original value).
  - 50% of the initially supplied iBTC need now be recovered by trading the other token for this iBTC
  - With slippage and trading fees, the LP tokens need to generate enough trading fees before the swap back can happen to exit only with iBTC (and the same amount or ideally more iBTC) than before
  - This might be a problem when the pool does not generate enough fees for the trade back to complete before the layBTC expires
- Case 2: Interlay can deposit both sides at the same time, e.g., iBTC and INTR
  -  
- Trading against the iBTC/X pair


## Arbitrage routes

Insight 1: Arbitrage trades allow anyone to make a profit from our product.
Insight 2: Market actions should create arbitrage opportunities. Users that create the arbitrage opportunities basically pay for the arbitrage as a fee when they e.g., swap iBTC accepting certain slippage or need to pay back iBTC loans.
Insight 3: The more Interlay can be involved on these arbitrage routes (getting a profit from them via trading fees, lending fees, bridging fees) the better for us.
Insight 4: The more efficient the arbitrage routes are (capital, time), the smaller the arbitrage opportunities can be to make sense.
Insight 5: With layBTC, we would have a governance controlled way to induce arbitrage by directing liquidity.

- iBTC price too high relative to BTC
  - Caused by high demand of iBTC/delay in price adjustments to BTC
    - Used as collateral in lending protocols/stablecoin protocols
	- Required to sell back loans
	- Used as selling wBTC to buy iBTC to exit to BTC
  - Arbitrage example
    - Have BTC
	- Mint iBTC
	- Sell iBTC for a third asset where iBTC trades at a premium
	- Sell third asset for BTC
	- Succesful arbitrage if more BTC at the end
	- Idea: could be made more efficient if iBTC were traded on a CEX so that direct arbitrage between BTC and iBTC is possible
- iBTC price too low relative to BTC
  - Caused by low demand of iBTC/delay in price adjustments to BTC
    - Selling iBTC to get wBTC for DeFi
	- Lack of incentives/use cases for iBTC
  - Arbitrage example
    - Have BTC
    - Mint renBTC/wBTC
    - Sell renBTC/wBTC for iBTC (get more iBTC for your renBTC/wBTC)
    - Redeem iBTC
  - Succesful arbitrage if more BTC at the end
